Literary Summary/Review for "High Level Overview of Content Based Recommendations,"
found at https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2015/08/beginners-guide-learn-content-based-recommender-systems/

Recommender systems are a type of information filtering system that aim to predict a preference that a user would give an item, based on their previous behavior or other supporting data.  There are two types of recommendation systems - content based and collaborative filtering based.  This particular article focuses on content-based recommendation systems.

A content based recommender builds a user profile from data that the user provides, either through direct feedback or through action within a system.  This profile is continually refined and theoretically becomes more accurate as data is fed into the recommender, although over-fitting is definitely possible.

A fairly common concept within content based recommenders is TF-IDF (Term Frequency - Inverse Document Frequency), which is used to determine the importance of an item, document, review, etc. in relation to other items, documents, or even search input.  TF-IDF weighs the value/importance of words, keeping high-frequency words (i.e., a, an, the) from determining absolute importance or best-matching when better descriptor might exist.  This is accomplished by using log to dampen or negate the effects of high-frequency words within review, as an example, and using the Vector Space Model to compute how closely that review might match the user profile in question.  This is especially important when analyzing reviews or free-text data, when commonly occurring words might lead the recommender to believe irrelevant filler words are more important than they are, resulting in a poor match with the user profile.  

Binary representation is a method for building a user profile in which items are given attributes (i.e. genre), and those attributes are either present in an item (1) or not (0).  When a user decides if they like an item (which is given a value of 1, or a -1 if the user doesn't like the item), this method stores the attributes for this user profile.  This attributes are culminated over time based upon the user's reviews and a trend is created to determine that user profile's preference for similar or like items, using a count representation.  It's important to remember that when using TF with binary representation, you need to normalize the values before calculating TF scores (since 1+ log(1) will equal 1 for attributes that occur and 0 for those that don't.  This isn't helpful). 
